So, I switch back to the app, and I click record again, and I try typing into the filter,
and I stop recording, and now I still see a single expensive spike of CPU activity,
but if I zoom into this spike, if I look into what's happening here, instead of a single
huge JavaScript task, and let me just let me remind you how this was before we implemented
this optimization.
So, I'm going to comment this out, and click record, hold on, let me remove this.
Click record, press F, stop recording.
So, before this looked like this, we were pressing the keyboard button, and this was
triggering the whole app to re-render, and this was taking, sorry, this was taking, this was
blocking the page for 600 milliseconds.
Now, with concurrent rendering, what happens is instead of blocking the page that is having
a single huge expensive chunk of JavaScript, which renders all your components in a row,
what you have is you have these single small, individual small tasks of JavaScript, each
of which takes just five, six, seven milliseconds, and each of which renders just several components
at a time, like, we have a function call, and the function call renders RectMarkdown, calls
RectMarkdown, calls RectMarkdown, RectMarkdown, a bunch of RectMarkdown components, and, yeah,
the NotesList component, so React starts rendering the components, React renders some
components, and then React gives back control to the browser.
So this is how it looks.
Now, how does it actually work?